\input texinfo
@setfilename manual
@settitle SmartCalc_v2.0
@documentencoding UTF-8

@copying
Copyright © 2023 by pancakeswya
@end copying

@titlepage
@title A little instruction on using the calculator
@vskip
@insertcopying
@author HNR
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top SmartCalc_v1.0
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* General information:: This section provides general information about how the calculator works.
* Arithmetic operations:: This section provides information about the list of implemented arithmetic operations.
* Math function:: This section provides information about the list of implemented mathematical functions.
* Charts:: This section provides information about the possibility of charting functions.
* Credit calculator:: This section provides information about the possibility of using a credit calculator.
* Deposit calculator:: This section provides information about the possibility of using a deposit calculator.
@end menu

@node General information
@chapter General information

The calculator is developed in the C/C++ programming language using QT Creator version 5.12.@*
The basic principle of calculations is implemented on the basis of Dijkstra's algorithm, the essence of which is to convert mathematical expressions from infix notation to reverse Polish notation.

@node  Arithmetic operations
@chapter  Arithmetic operations

The calculator implements the following arithmetic operations:
@enumerate
@item
Addition - a + b
@item
Subtraction - a - b
@item
Multiplication - a * b
@item
Division - a / b
@item
Exponentiation - a ^ b
@item
The remainder of the division is a mod b
@item
Unary plus - +a
@item
Unary minus - -a
@item
To enter complex expressions, use the left and right brackets - (a)
@end enumerate
You can specify a complex mathematical expression using the constant X.
Enter the expression, click "=" and get the answer.

@node Math function
@chapter Math function

The calculator implements the following mathematical functions:
@enumerate
@item
Calculates the cosine - cos(x)
@item
Calculates the sine - sin(x)
@item
Calculates the tangent - tan(x)
@item
Calculates the arccosine - acos(x)
@item
Calculates the arcsin - asin(x)
@item
Calculates the arctangent - atan(x)
@item
Counts the square root - sqrt(x)
@item
Considers the natural logarithm - ln(x)
@item
Considers the usual logarithm - log(x)
@end enumerate
Enter the expression, click "=" and get the answer.

@node Charts
@chapter Charts

The calculator implements the possibility of plotting functions.@*
In order to build a graph, it is necessary that the constant "x" is present in the expression.@*
Enter the expression, click the "graph" button.@*
Next, a window will appear for entering the definition area, the value area.@*
After entering the values, click OK, and a new window with a graph will appear.@*
@*
The definition area and the range of function values are limited to numbers from -1000000 to 1000000.

@node Credit calculator
@chapter Credit calculator
The calculator has a special mode of operation: Credit Calculator.It is written following the example of a calculator on the calcus website. Calculates values with the same accuracy to a penny as on the calcus calculator.@*
The loan calculator window contains the following fields:@*
- Loan amount - the desired loan amount. Specified as an integer or a floating-point number.@*
- Loan term - set in months, supports only integer values.@*
- Interest rate - the desired interest rate. Specified as an integer or a floating-point number.@*
- Type of monthly payments - type of calculation of monthly payments.@*
Output fields:@*
- Monthly loan payment.@*
- Accrued interest.@*
- Debt + interest.@*
- A table with payments and payment dates.@*
@node Deposit calculator
@chapter Deposit calculator
The calculator has a special mode of operation: Deposit Calculator. It is written following the example of a calculator on the calcus website. Calculates values with the same accuracy to a penny as on the calcus calculator.@*
The deposit calculator window contains the following fields:@*
- Deposit amount - the initial deposit amount. Specified as an integer or a floating-point number.@*
- Placement period - for how long you plan to invest money. It is set in months, years or days, depending on the selection from the drop-down list.@*
- The beginning of the term.@*
- The interest rate is the percentage at which you invest money. Specified as an integer or a floating-point number.@*
- Frequency of payments - frequency of interest accrual (selected from the drop-down list).@*
- Capitalization of interest - activate the checkbox if interest is credited to the account.@*
- Deposits - the frequency of replenishment of the account. Set as an integer. Click on '+' to add a deposit, '-' to remove.@*
- Debits - the frequency of partial withdrawals from the account. Set as an integer. Click on '+' to add withdrawal, '-' to remove.@*
- Non-deductible balance - the amount at which it is necessary to suspend withdrawals from the account.@*
Output fields:@*
- Accrued interest@*
- Tax.@*
- Income after taxes.@*
- Effective bid. Unlike the calculator, calcus counts taking into account all deposits and debits.@*
- The amount on the deposit by the end of the term.@*
- A table with the dates of payments and the amount of payments.@*
- A table with taxes by year.
@bye